OSDOCS-13258: Update FlowCollector API 1.8 (#87820)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-flowcollector-api-specifications.adoc

| `features`
| `array (string)`

> | List of additional features to enable. They are all disabled by default. Enabling additional features might have performance impacts. Possible values are: +

Reviewer: Do we need the `+` at the end? It doesn't seem to be appearing in the preview. Not sure what it does.

> - `PacketDrop`: enable the packets drop flows logging feature. This feature requires mounting

Reviewer: I know many of these sentences are existing text. But, they should start with capital letters, as they are sentences.

It requires using the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin with the Observability feature.
IMPORTANT: This feature is available as a Developer Preview. +

> - `PacketTranslation`: enable enriching flows with packet's translation information.  +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `PacketTranslation`: enable flow enrichment with packet's translated information.  +
```

Author: Yes and additionally line 218 is for Network Events, which is now in Technology Preview, so that needs to be updated. I commented in Joel's regeneration PR to update it.

> - `EbpfManager`: allow using eBPF manager to manage netobserv ebpf programs.  +

Reviewer 2: this also needs to be moved under Dev preview

IMPORTANT: This feature is available as a Developer Preview. +

> - `UDNMapping`, to enable interfaces mappind to udn.  +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `UDNMapping`, to enable interfaces mapping to UDN.  +
```

Reviewer: Is this right?
```suggestion
- `UDNMapping`, to enable interface mappind to udn.  +
```

> This feature requires mounting the kernel debug filesystem, so the eBPF agent pods have to run as privileged.

Reviewer: Per ISG: [Use have to only when must is too restrictive.](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#h)
```suggestion
This feature requires mounting the kernel debug filesystem, so the eBPF agent pods must run as privileged.
```

It requires using the OVN-Kubernetes network plugin with the Observability feature.
IMPORTANT: This feature is available as a Developer Preview. +

> 

Reviewer: Same comment with Dev Preview

| `integer`
| `icmpCode`, for Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) traffic, optionally defines the ICMP code to filter flows by.

| `icmpType`
| `integer`
| `icmpType`, for ICMP traffic, optionally defines the ICMP type to filter flows by.

| `peerCIDR`
| `string`
| `peerCIDR` defines the Peer IP CIDR to filter flows by.
Examples: `10.10.10.0/24` or `100:100:100:100::/64`

| `peerIP`
| `string`
| `peerIP` optionally defines the remote IP address to filter flows by.
Example: `10.10.10.10`.

| `pktDrops`
| `boolean`
| `pktDrops` optionally filters only flows containing packet drops.

| `ports`
| `integer-or-string`
| `ports` optionally defines the ports to filter flows by. It is used both for source and destination ports.
To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example, `ports: 80`.
To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example, `ports: "80-100"`.
To filter two ports, use a "port1,port2" in string format. For example, `ports: "80,100"`.

| `protocol`
| `string`
| `protocol` optionally defines a protocol to filter flows by. The available options are `TCP`, `UDP`, `ICMP`, `ICMPv6`, and `SCTP`.

| `rules`
| `array`

> | `flowFilterRules` defines a list of ebpf agent flow filtering rules

Reviewer 2: This also is Dev preview

Reviewer: See earlier Dev Preview concern.

| `sampling`
| `integer`

> | `sampling` sampling rate for the matched flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `sampling` sampling rate for the matched flow.
```

> | `sampling` sampling rate for the matched flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sampling` sampling rate for the matched flow.
```

| `sourcePorts`
| `integer-or-string`
| `sourcePorts` optionally defines the source ports to filter flows by.
To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example, `sourcePorts: 80`.
To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example, `sourcePorts: "80-100"`.
To filter two ports, use a "port1,port2" in string format. For example, `ports: "80,100"`.

| `tcpFlags`
| `string`
| `tcpFlags` optionally defines TCP flags to filter flows by.
In addition to the standard flags (RFC-9293), you can also filter by one of the three following combinations: `SYN-ACK`, `FIN-ACK`, and `RST-ACK`.

|===
== .spec.agent.ebpf.flowFilter.rules
Description::
+
--

> `flowFilterRules` defines a list of ebpf agent flow filtering rules

Reviewer 2: need to mention its dev preview here or above or both. Dont know the norm

Reviewer: See earlier Dev Preview concern.

> `flowFilterRules` defines a list of ebpf agent flow filtering rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`flowFilterRules` defines a list of ebpf agent flow filtering rules.
```

| `icmpCode`, for Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) traffic, optionally defines the ICMP code to filter flows by.

| `icmpType`
| `integer`
| `icmpType`, for ICMP traffic, optionally defines the ICMP type to filter flows by.

| `peerCIDR`
| `string`
| `peerCIDR` defines the Peer IP CIDR to filter flows by.
Examples: `10.10.10.0/24` or `100:100:100:100::/64`

| `peerIP`
| `string`
| `peerIP` optionally defines the remote IP address to filter flows by.
Example: `10.10.10.10`.

| `pktDrops`
| `boolean`
| `pktDrops` optionally filters only flows containing packet drops.

| `ports`
| `integer-or-string`
| `ports` optionally defines the ports to filter flows by. It is used both for source and destination ports.
To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example, `ports: 80`.
To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example, `ports: "80-100"`.
To filter two ports, use a "port1,port2" in string format. For example, `ports: "80,100"`.

| `protocol`
| `string`
| `protocol` optionally defines a protocol to filter flows by. The available options are `TCP`, `UDP`, `ICMP`, `ICMPv6`, and `SCTP`.

| `sampling`
| `integer`

> | `sampling` sampling rate for the matched flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sampling` sampling rate for the matched flow.
```

| `sourcePorts`
| `integer-or-string`
| `sourcePorts` optionally defines the source ports to filter flows by.
To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example, `sourcePorts: 80`.
To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example, `sourcePorts: "80-100"`.
To filter two ports, use a "port1,port2" in string format. For example, `ports: "80,100"`.

| `tcpFlags`
| `string`

> | `tcpFlags` optionally defines TCP flags to filter flows by.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `tcpFlags`, for TCP traffic,  optionally defines TCP flags to filter flows by.
```

| `string`
| `clusterName` is the name of the cluster to appear in the flows data. This is useful in a multi-cluster context. When using {product-title}, leave empty to make it automatically determined.

| `deduper`
| `object`

> | `deduper` allows to sample or drop flows identified as duplicates, in order to save on resource usage.

Reviewer: Allows whom or what to sample or drop flows?

> IMPORTANT: This feature is available as a Developer Preview.

Reviewer: See previous Dev Preview concern.

Author: Globally, we've made mentions of Dev Preview render as "Unsupported" with an * that defines the unsupported nature of the feature. This is a unique challenge in sharing upstream/downstream autogenerated API docs, but I think this solution is a good compromise. Thanks for pointing this out in the PR.

| `filters`
| `array`

> | `filters` let you define custom filters to limit the amount of generated flows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `filters` lets you define custom filters to limit the amount of generated flows.
```

> IMPORTANT: This feature is available as a Developer Preview.

Reviewer: See previous Dev Preview concern.

| `string`
| `logTypes` defines the desired record types to generate. Possible values are: +

> - `Flows` (default) to export regular network flows. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Flows` to export regular network flows. This is the default. +
```

| `string`
| `name` should match the network name as visible in the pods annotation 'k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/network-status'.

|===
== .spec.processor.deduper
Description::
+
--

> `deduper` allows to sample or drop flows identified as duplicates, in order to save on resource usage.

Reviewer: Allows whom or what to sample or drop flows?

> IMPORTANT: This feature is available as a Developer Preview.

Reviewer: See previous Dev Preview concern.

--

Type::
  `object`

[cols="1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Property | Type | Description

| `mode`
| `string`
| Set the Processor de-duplication mode. It comes in addition to the Agent-based deduplication because the Agent cannot de-duplicate same flows reported from different nodes. +

> - Use `Drop` to drop every flow considered as duplicates, allowing saving more on resource usage but potentially loosing some information such as the network interfaces used from peer, or network events. +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `Drop` to drop every flow considered as duplicates, allowing saving more on resource usage but potentially losing some information such as the network interfaces used from peer, or network events. +
```

> - Use `Sample` to randomly keep only 1 flow on 50 (by default) among the ones considered as duplicates. This is a compromise between dropping every duplicates or keeping every duplicates. This sampling action comes in addition to the Agent-based sampling. If both Agent and Processor sampling are 50, the combined sampling is 1:2500. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `Sample` to randomly keep only one flow on 50, by default, among the ones considered as duplicates. This is a compromise between dropping every duplicate or keeping every duplicate. This sampling action comes in addition to the Agent-based sampling. If both Agent and Processor sampling are 50, the combined sampling is 1:2500. +
```

Reviewer: Do the two instances of 50 need markup as values?
```suggestion
- Use `Sample` to randomly keep only 1 flow on `50` (by default) among the ones considered as duplicates. This is a compromise between dropping every duplicates or keeping every duplicates. This sampling action comes in addition to the Agent-based sampling. If both Agent and Processor sampling are `50`, the combined sampling is 1:2500. +
```

Reviewer 3: I would say only the second is a direct reference to the configured value, the first is more an indirect reference.

- Use `Disabled` to turn off Processor-based de-duplication. +

| `sampling`
| `integer`
| `sampling` is the sampling rate when deduper `mode` is `Sample`.

|===
== .spec.processor.filters
Description::
+
--

> `filters` let you define custom filters to limit the amount of generated flows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`filters` lets you define custom filters to limit the amount of generated flows.
```

> IMPORTANT: This feature is available as a Developer Preview.

Reviewer: See previous Dev Preview concern.

--

Type::
  `array`

== .spec.processor.filters[]
Description::
+
--

> `FLPFilterSet` defines the desired configuration for FLP-based filtering satisfying all conditions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`FLPFilterSet` defines the desired configuration for FLP-based filtering satisfying all conditions.
```

--

Type::
  `object`

[cols="1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Property | Type | Description

| `allOf`
| `array`
| `filters` is a list of matches that must be all satisfied in order to remove a flow.

| `outputTarget`
| `string`

> | If specified, this filters only target a single output: `Loki`, `Metrics` or `Exporters`. By default, all outputs are targeted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| If specified, these filters only target a single output: `Loki`, `Metrics` or `Exporters`. By default, all outputs are targeted.
```

Reviewer: Or is it _this filter_?

Reviewer 3: It's plural indeed

| `sampling`
| `integer`
| `sampling` is an optional sampling rate to apply to this filter.

|===
== .spec.processor.filters[].allOf
Description::
+
--
`filters` is a list of matches that must be all satisfied in order to remove a flow.
--

Type::
  `array`

== .spec.processor.filters[].allOf[]
Description::
+
--

> `FLPSingleFilter` defines the desired configuration for a single FLP-based filter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`FLPSingleFilter` defines the desired configuration for a single FLP-based filter.
```

--

Type::
  `object`

Required::
  - `field`
  - `matchType`

[cols="1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Property | Type | Description

| `field`
| `string`

> | Name of the field to filter on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name of the field to filter on.
```

> Refer to the documentation for the list of available fields: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/observability/network_observability/json-flows-format-reference.html.

Reviewer: No links to OCP docs in a module.

Author: I think Joel changed this to github link since that's allowed in the exception for autogenerated API docs. I can add the xref to the downstream here, but since this is autogenerated from the upstream, I think that's why there was the link to the downstream docs.

Author: NVM the module can't accept the xref 🤦‍♀️ just reverted to the GitHub link since at least we have an exception for that in autogenerated docs.

Metrics enabled by default are:
`namespace_flows_total`, `node_ingress_bytes_total`, `node_egress_bytes_total`, `workload_ingress_bytes_total`,
`workload_egress_bytes_total`, `namespace_drop_packets_total` (when `PacketDrop` feature is enabled),

> `namespace_rtt_seconds` (when `FlowRTT` feature is enabled), `namespace_dns_latency_seconds` (when `DNSTracking` feature is enabled),
> `namespace_network_policy_events_total` (when `NetworkEvents` feature is enabled).

Reviewer: We try to avoid parenthesis in the docs.

```suggestion
`namespace_rtt_seconds`, when `FlowRTT` feature is enabled; `namespace_dns_latency_seconds`, when `DNSTracking` feature is enabled,
namespace_network_policy_events_total`, when `NetworkEvents` feature is enabled.
```

> More information, with full list of available metrics: https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-operator/blob/main/docs/Metrics.md

Reviewer: I know this is existing text, but per [doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#links-to-external-websites): You cannot link to a repository that is hosted on www.github.com.

Author: There's an exception there though, and this falls under that since its an auto-generated API:

> An exception to this rule is when autogenerated API reference content contains a link to [www.github.com](http://www.github.com/).
